# Final_Project_LucasForcier


My project was made using pygame. It is a tile based game in which a player can move around a map from square to square. The player can interact with objects to search them for items needed to unlock a door to escape. Once the door is unlocked the game will end. 
 I used a variety of classes to create the game object and others to create sprites to use in the game. Within these classes I’ve written a bunch of methods. I have a method to determine distance between the player sprite and a hidden object sprite. I have a method to determine if a movement would put the player in the same tile as a wall and prevent that movement. I have a method that defines the players ability to search objects. I’ve used a list to store different audio files to use as music in the game. The game will randomly select an option within the list to use as the game music. I used a dictionary to store string literals for displaying the current status in the game. I used the modules pygame, random, and math. The game will read from a text file all of the information for laying out the map. The use of sprites and their methods was one of the concepts I learned that we did not use in class. 
 Reflection:
Overall this was a fun project. I spent a lot of time learning out to create a tile based game and use sprites. For the most part I think I did pretty well. I did have some headaches though. It took me a long time to figure out a good way to give the player sprite the ability to “search” other sprites for an object. I wish that I was able to implement a little smoother movement for the player, but once I dug into it I found it to be a bit complex for the amount of time I had to work on this. Looking back though I realize that I have come a long way in using python this semester.
